## Shopping List

Website link: https://a2-javieira.glitch.me/  

This Shopping List Application was designed to help users keep track of the items they would like to purchase and how much the total cost is compared to their budget. The user begins by filling out a budget if they would like. This budget is updated to the right of where they enter this figure as “Total Budget.” Alongside this label are the “Total Cost” and “Remaining Budget” labels which display how much all the items cost and the difference between the budget and total cost. If the user does not enter a budget, the budget and remaining budget labels will remain at $0.00, which is also the case if a NaN is entered. Below this section is where they can add in items. The sections that are required are the item, quantity, price, and product type. Each of these fields are marked with an aria label, the * symbol, so that the user knows they are required fields. In addition, there is CSS to outline the required fields in a red glow when they are not properly filled in. The user may also choose to write down some notes if they want to keep track of their purchase for each item, however this field is not required. If the user does not fill out a required field, a banner will appear at the top stating which field still needs to be filled out. Once the item is successfully entered into the server, the table is automatically updated with the new item. The derived field in this project is the cost for a quantity of items. This value is stored for each item and summed to find the total cost. This is found and added to the server data by multiplying the quantity and the price per item that the user enters. If the user accidentally reloads the page, the table will also repopulate so they are always aware of which items they have stored. The table displays all the information the user provided and in each row, there is a remove button which will take out the unwanted item. Further, when the item is submitted, the total cost and remaining budget are adjusted accordingly at the top of the screen. To format this project using CSS, multiple flex boxes were used. A flex box was used for the table so that the width could be set to 100% without running off the page as there is also padding. Another flexbox contains the budget information at the top of the screen. Inside this flexbox, a secondary flexbox sits so that the labels and input area could be formatted side by side while the labels, button, and input area themselves remained in columns. A similar technique was used in the add item section since the quantity and price fields were situated in columns for their respective labels and input boxes and then side by side. Then the entire add item section was encapsulated into another flexbox for further styling.The margins, padding, fonts, and colors were also manipulated using the classes defined by the flexboxes. In addition, individual elements, such as the buttons, and sections, such as the table rows and columns, were called separate from the flexboxes for CSS styling. I would also like to make a note about the validation baseline requirement. I went through and fixed all the errors that were given, but I was still given a couple warnings about unnecessary / in the HTML. This was a recurring problem as using the “prettier” function in Glitch adds in these extra slashes. In addition, there was another warning about the aria label which marked the label as a required field with the asterisk *. This is something I pulled directly from the forms link that was included in this assignment.  I also collected all my fonts from Google fonts. These fonts made up the button, label, table, and title fonts.

## Technical Achievements

- **Tech Achievement 1**:  

I completed the first technical achievement which provided a form for the user to submit data and always shows the current state of the server side data. In order to accomplish this, when the user submits new data, a showResults function is called in the main.js file which is responsible for updating the table immediately. In addition, in the window.onload function, the same showResults function is called such that the data is repopulated each time the page is reloaded. This solves the issue where a user initially goes onto the page, enters a new item, and then is shown a list of items they may have forgotten were added to the server. The derived field is also updated each time a user enters a new item. This derived field is the cost, which is calculated by multiplying the quantity by the unit price for each item.

### Design/Evaluation Achievements
- **Design Achievement 1**:  

<b>Provide the last name of each student you conduct the evaluation with.</b>  
Juliana Porto  
<b>What problems did the user have with your design?</b>  
There was a problem with the total cost and remaining budget calculations when items were removed that I did not come across at first. When an item was removed, the total cost and remaining budget would not update immediately and therefore show an inaccurate amount.  
<b>What comments did they make that surprised you?</b>  
It was also suggested that the budget be placed further up on the screen so that the user could alter that prior to entering their items. This is not something I had thought of before but makes sense since the user will want to see their remaining budget as items are added. She did mention that the red outline of the required fields was handy to identify which fields were required.  
<b>What would you change about the interface based on their feedback?</b>  
I did change both of these issues. The total cost and remaining budget label changes were put into a separate function so I now call it every time a table is updated regardless of whether items were added or removed. In addition, I did move the budget to the top of the page so the user can enter this information first if they choose.  

<b>Provide the last name of each student you conduct the evaluation with.</b>  
Nicole Burgess  
<b>What problems did the user have with your design?</b>  
Nicole’s problems with my design were similar to Julianna’s problems which I thought was interesting that they had such a similar experience. She also discovered the issue with the budget and total cost being slightly off when certain items were removed. In addition, Nicole also mentioned that the budget should be moved to the top as she was unclear whether it was a budget for the whole trip or each individual item.  
<b>What comments did they make that surprised you?</b>  
She also brought up the point that my label was unclear when asking for the price. I asked the user for the price of the item, but did not specify that I wanted the unit price. This was misinterpreted to be the price for the item at a certain quantity, which defeats the purpose of the derived field cost column.  
<b>What would you change about the interface based on their feedback?</b>  
As mentioned above, I fixed the issues in regard to the budget labels being moved to the top and the labels updating properly. I also edited the price label so that it asks for the unit price rather than any price.  
