README.md, before:

## Your Web Application Title

Include a very brief summary of your project here. Be sure to include the CSS positioning technique you used, and any required instructions to use your application.

## CSS Requirements

I used a grid to display all of the inputs in the task-form. The grid is made up of two columns and two rows, the description input stretching across two columnts using grid-column: 1 / 3. There are also many examples of flexbox, one of them being the form itself. The content-container is a flex container, the flexbox orders its child elements vertically, and centered.

Id selectors were used for the task-form and the inputs inside the form, class selectors were used for the buttons beside the tasks as well as for the many containers (button, input, and main container).

Used the Source Code Pro font from Google Fonts. CSS defined in a maintainable, readable form, in a external stylesheet (main.css).

## Technical Achievements

- **Tech Achievement 1**: Created a single-page todo list app that provides a form for users to submit task data and always shows the current state of the server-side data

- **Tech Achievement 2**: Using fetch request API, users are able to add/delete data on the server

- **Tech Achievement 2**:

// Use PUT to update data entries
// Update derived field to make it more unique

### Design/Evaluation Achievements

- **Design Achievement 1**:

Commit message:

Include edit functions and functions to calculate priority level

README.md, after:

## Your Web Application Title

Include a very brief summary of your project here. Be sure to include the CSS positioning technique you used, and any required instructions to use your application.

## CSS Requirements

I used a grid to display all of the inputs in the task-form. The grid is made up of two columns and two rows, the description input stretching across two columnts using grid-column: 1 / 3. There are also many examples of flexbox, one of them being the form itself. The content-container is a flex container, the flexbox orders its child elements vertically, and centered.

Id selectors were used for the task-form and the inputs inside the form, class selectors were used for the buttons beside the tasks as well as for the many containers (button, input, and main container).

CSS defined in a maintainable, readable form, in a external stylesheet (main.css).

## Technical Achievements

- **Tech Achievement 1**: Created a single-page todo list app that provides a form for users to submit task data and always shows the current state of the server-side data

- **Tech Achievement 2**: Using fetch request API, users are able to add/delete data on the server

- **Tech Achievement 3**: Using fetch request API, users are able to edit/modify data on the server

- **Tech Achievement 4**: Priority field derived from due date using daysBetween function.

### Design/Evaluation Achievements

- **Design Achievement 1**: Used a table to store the task data entries

- **Design Achievement 2**: Used grid display to format the inputs in the form

- **Design Achievement 3**: Used the Source Code Pro font from Google Fonts.

- **Design Achievement 4**: When editing a data entry, the "submit task" button is changed to "edit task" and the input elements are filled in with the edited task values.
